Okay,
guys.
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered.
Lecture.
Now this questions from Daymo.
What Daymo has is a spreadsheet with to drop down lists in two columns on what he wants to
do is have a use that pick one of the selections from drop down one a selection from
dropped down to and depending on those answers,
return the intersection of those two rows and columns.
This is the question here.
And here's his friend she that have created the mimics his data.
So what we have is a list here off depth,
which is very deep,
deep,
moderate,
shallow,
very shallow on a list across the top here,
which is very hot heart,
medium cold and very cold.
Now this medium did say moderate.
But because we're going to use named Ranges,
I've changed this to medium because you kind of have to named Rangers with same name.
So what I'm gonna do for now,
I'm just going to delete that word depth,
and I'm just going to create some some name ranges,
so I'm just selecting that entire section with it.
With the exception of heat on a choose create from selection on,
we already have top row and left Colin lying in a click.
Ok,
now I'm gonna add the word depth back in there just so we can see what it is now.
Here,
you'll see that magically we have cold,
which is being created,
which is this list here on we have We have cold,
deep heart,
medium moderate,
shallow,
very cold.
Noticed he underscored because we have two words.
There's an underscore.
Very deep,
very hot and very shallow.
So any of those will display the the range that they refer to FOCAC way of getting named
ranges in.
So here what we're gonna do is we're going to create some drop down list.
So we're gonna go today,
sir.
Gonna get the data validation.
We're going to go to data validation on.
Let me just drank that in on.
We're gonna l A list and we're gonna have this groups.
Let me just move that out the way we're gonna have this as the source on.
Then we're going to click.
Ok,
okay.
So now we have a drop down list of all those options down there long and do is I'm just
gonna come down.
I'm gonna copy that all the way down to Day 10 control on D.
So now we have a drop down in all of those here.
We're going to do something very similar data validation,
data validation alot list.
And this time,
we're going to use in the way we're going to use this range over here.
So is the headings Very hard heart medium called Very cold on we're going to say Okay.
And then again,
you'll see that there in our drop down list.
Andi,
I'm just going to copy that away.
D o to number 10 control Andi.
So here we have our options.
So from here,
I could say something is very deep,
and here I could say something is very hot.
Now,
what we want to do here is return the intersection of that rose on that column.
So the answer would be maybe now you'll remember from earlier on.
What we could do is we could say equals very hot.
There we go.
Floatable.
Click it space on,
then say very deep.
And the answer would be when we hit intact.
Miraculously.
Maybe Now what we need to do here is used the indirect because these are words on what we
actually want to do is refer to the those words as their named range.
But we have a problem very deep.
Has a space or one of the first things that we need to do is replaced the space with an
underscore because the named range will have an underscore wherever there is a space.
And to do that because I equal substitute open rackets groups.
I'm not typing by my typing,
trying and equals sub sti shoot.
So we're gonna substitute and we're gonna use this text comma on the old text is going to
be quotes,
space quote and we're going to say comment on the new texts going to be quote underscore
quote on when I close the brackets and hit Enter will know get very deep now what we want
to do it is used the indirect function just in front of that.
So rather than return the words very deep,
it's actually looking at the named range and very deep.
So I'm gonna say in direct,
we've covered this earlier whips and a high rex.
We've covered this earlier in the course in direct and then close the brackets and hit
enter and get a value.
Don't worry about that.
Then we want to say exactly the same thing.
But for columns,
See?
So I'm just gonna copy all of that.
Except for the in the equal Sign control.
And see,
I'm gonna hit a space just like we did in the earlier example.
On this time,
we're gonna point to see to and I'm gonna hit Enter.
So now we get the answer off.
Maybe so here we could say very shallow on.
Let's pick this one on Dhere.
We could say medium and we should get the answer.
Yes,
we do.
We really something.
Weather is different.
Answer,
I say cold on.
We should now get Maybe now that's gonna work perfectly well.
Let me just copy that damn controlling day.
But if we have no answers in here,
we're going to get a ref error.
So we need to do is come to the very front and say if era open brackets come all way to the
end and say comma,
if there's an error,
just returned a blank and enter on Well,
let me copy that Down Control and D and they go No,
it works perfectly.
So from the next drop down list,
I could choose very deep,
and here I could choose medium.
Can I get a maybe.
Or I could choose very hot.
And then I still get it.
May be a very cold.
I'm gonna get in.
No.
Okay.
I hope that helps is always.
Any questions.
Just let me know,
and I'll see you in the next lecture.